Objective: Examining Telnet and SSH in Wireshark 
Procedure: 
Step 1: Configure Telnet 
a. Install Telnet and start server 

sudo apt update 
sudo apt install telnetd -y 
sudo systemctl enable inetutils-inetd 
sudo systemctl start inetutils-inetd 


b. Confirm that telnet service is configured for inetd 

sudo nano /etc/inetd.conf 


c. Uncomment the lines as shown below and then à Press ctrl + O (to 
confirm)→Enter→ ctrl + X (to exit). {Remove  “#<off># “} 

#<off># telnet  stream  tcp  nowait  root  /usr/sbin/tcpd  /usr/sbin/telnetd 
 
 
d. Now restart inetd to run the configuration 

sudo systemctl restart inetutils-inetd 


Step 2:  Capture Telnet Packets using Wireshark 

a. Open a terminal window and start Wireshark using command: 

wireshark 

b. Start a Wireshark capture on the Loopback: lo interface

Open another terminal window. Start a Telnet session to the localhost. 

telnet localhost 


Step 3: Examine the Telnet session on Wireshark. 
a. Apply a filter that only displays Telnet-related traffic. Enter telnet in the 
filter field and click Apply. 

b. Right-click one of the Telnet lines in the Packet list section of Wireshark, and 
from the drop-down list, select Follow > TCP Stream 

c. The Follow TCP Stream window displays the data for your Telnet session as seen 
below: 
 
d. After you have finished reviewing your Telnet session in the Follow TCP 
Stream window, click Close. 

e. Type exit at the terminal to exit the Telnet session. 
 
Step 4:  Configure SSH
 
a. Install SSH Server 

sudo apt update 
sudo apt install openssh-server -y 

b. Start and enable the SSH service 

sudo systemctl enable ssh 
sudo systemctl start ssh 
 
Step 5:  Examine an SSH Session with Wireshark 

a. Start another Wireshark capture using the Loopback: lo interface. 
b. You will establish an SSH session with the localhost. At the terminal use 
command: 

ssh localhost


c. Apply an SSH filter on the Wireshark capture data. Enter ssh in the filter field and 
click Apply. 
 
d. Right-click one of the SSHv2 lines in the Packet list section of Wireshark, and in the drop-down list, select the Follow > TCP Stream. 
 
 
 
e. Examine the Follow TCP Stream window of your SSH session. The data has been 
encrypted and is unreadable. Compare the data in your SSH session to the data of 
your Telnet session.

