 A. To use Wireshark to examine HTTP and HTTPS Traffic 
Procedure: 
A. Part 1: Capture and View HTTP traffic 
Step 1: Check for available network interfaces within your kali-linux machine using 
command: 
ip address  
 
 
Step 2: From the above available interfaces, we choose eth0 for this lab, as it is an active 
network interface and capable of capturing HTTP/HTTPS traffic. 
 
Step 3:Start tcpdump and write to a pcap(httpdump.pcap) file using this command: 
sudo tcpdump -i eth0 -s 0 -w ~/httpdump.pcap  
 
This command starts tcpdump and records network traffic on the eth0 interface. 
• The -i command option allows you to specify the interface. If not specified, the tcpdump will 
capture all traffic on all interfaces. 
• The -s command option specifies the length of the snapshot for each packet. You should limit 
snaplen to the smallest number that will capture the protocol information in which you are 
interested. Setting snaplen to 0 sets it to the default of 262144, for backwards compatibility 
with recent older versions of tcpdump. 
• The -w command option is used to write the result of the tcpdump command to a file. 
Adding the extension .pcap ensures that operating systems and applications will be able to 
read to file. All recorded traffic will be printed to the file httpdump.pcap in the home 
directory of the user analyst. 
 
Step 4: To generate HTTP traffic open web browser(Firefox) and open the following 
website: 
http://testphp.vulnweb.com/login.php

Because this website uses HTTP, the traffic is not encrypted. Click the Password field to see the 
warning pop up. 
 
 
Step 5: Enter Username and Password both as “Admin” and click Login to submit, then 
close the browser. 
 
 
Step 6: Stop capturing packets by pressing (CTRL + C) inside the terminal. 
 
Step 7: View the HTTP capture stored in the httpdump.pcap file located in the home 
directory. Open the packet using the option “Open with Wireshark”. 

Step 8: Apply the http filter as shown below 
 
 
Step 9: Browse through the different HTTP messages and select the POST message. 
 
Step 10: In the lower window, the message is displayed. Expand the HTML Form URL 
Encoded: application/x-www-form-urlencoded section. 
 
What two pieces of information are displayed? 
→ The uname(username) and pass(password) that we entered as “Admin”. 
Step 11: Close the Wireshark application.


Part 2. Capture and View HTTPS Traffic 
Step 1:Start tcpdump to record HTTPS traffic: 
sudo tcpdump -i eth0 -s 0 -w ~/httpsdump.pcap  
Step 2: Now, open firefox browser and visit the website: https://www.netacad.com 
Step 3: Click on Login and enter random credentials as shown below 
 
Step 4: Click Login and close the browser. 
Step 5: Return to the tcpdump terminal and press Ctrl+C. tcpdump will stop and save 
~/httpsdump.pcap. 
 
Step 6: Open the pcap in Wireshark and filter HTTPS traffic use following command: 
sudo wireshark httpsdump.pcap.  
This will open the captured packets in wireshark 
Step 7: Apply the filter tcp.port = = 443 to view HTTPS traffic. Browse through the 
different HTTPS messages and select an Application Data message.

Step 8: Completely expand the Transport Layer Security section. 
If you expand the Application Data, you will see Encrypted Application Data — the 
payload is not readable (ciphertext). 
HTTP is replaced by the TLS section and the application data is encrypted and unreadable. 

4B. Exploring Processes, Threads, Handles, and Windows Registry 
Step 1: Download Windows SysInternals Suite. 
a. Navigate to the following link to download Windows SysInternals Suite: 
https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/bb842062.aspx  
 
 
b. After the download is completed, extract the files from the folder. 
c. Leave the web browser open for the following steps. 
 
Step 2: Explore an active process. 
a. Navigate to the SysinternalsSuite folder with all the extracted files. 
b. Open procexp.exe. Accept the Process Explorer License Agreement when prompted. 
 
c. The Process Explorer displays a list of currently active processes.

d. Drag this icon to the web browser to view it in process explorer. In this example 
the icon was dragged to Google Chrome: 
 
e. The Microsoft Edge process can be terminated in the Process Explorer. Right-click the 
selected process and select Kill Process. 

What happened to the web browser window when the process is killed? 
The web browser window closes. 
Step 3: Start another process. 
a. Open a Command Prompt. (Start > search Command Prompt > select Command 
Prompt) 
b. Drag the Find Window’s Process icon into the Command Prompt window and 
locate the highlighted Command Prompt process in Process Explorer. 
c. The process for the Command Prompt is cmd.exe. Its parent process is explorer.exe 
process. The cmd.exe has a child process, conhost.exe.

d. Navigate to the Command Prompt window. Start a ping at the prompt and 
observe the changes under the cmd.exe process. 
What happened during the ping process? 
A child process PING.EXE listed under the cmd.exe during the ping 
process. 
e. As you review the list of active processes, you find that the child process 
conhost.exe may be suspicious. To check for malicious content, right- 
click conhost.exe and select Check VirusTotal. When prompted, 
click Yes to agree to VirusTotal Terms of Service. Then click OK for the 
next prompt.
f. Expand the Process Explorer window or scroll to the right until you see the 
VirusTotal column. Click the link under the VirusTotal column. The default web 
browser opens with the results regarding the malicious content of conhost.exe. 
g. Right-click the cmd.exe process and select Kill Process. What happened to the 
child process conhost.exe? 
The child process depends on the parent process. So when the parent process stops, 
the 
child process also stops.

Part 2: Exploring Threads and Handles 
Step 1: Explore threads. 
a. Open a command prompt. 
b. In Process Explorer window, right-click conhost.exe and Select Properties….. Click 
the Threads tab to view the active threads for the conhost.exe process. 
 
 
c. Examine the details of the thread. What type of information is available in the 
Properties window? 
Information available includes environment variable, security information, 
performance information, and printable strings. 
 
Step 2: Explore handles. 
a. In the Process Explorer, click View > select Show Lower Pane > Handles to view 
the handles associated with the conhost.exe process.

Part 3: Exploring Windows Registry 
The Windows Registry is a hierarchical database that stores most of the operating systems 
and desktop environment configuration settings. In this part, you will 
a. To access the Windows Registry, click Start > Search for regedit and select Registry 
Editor. Click Yes when asked to allow this app to make changes. 
 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Registry Editor has five hives. These hives are at the top level of the registry. 
• HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT is actually the Classes subkey of 
HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\. It stores information used by registered 
applications like file extension association, as well as a programmatic identifier 
(ProgID), Class ID (CLSID), and Interface ID (IID) data. 
• HKEY_CURRENT_USER contains the settings and configurations for the users 
who are currently logged in. 
• HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE stores configuration information specific to the local 
computer. 
• HKEY_USERS contains the settings and configurations for all the users on the 
local computer. 
• HKEY_CURRENT_USER is a subkey of HKEY_USERS. 
• HKEY_CURRENT_CONFIG stores the hardware information that is used at 
bootup by the local computer. 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
b. In a previous step, you had accepted the EULA(End-User License Agreement) for 
Process Explorer. Navigate to the EulaAccepted registry key for Process Explorer. 
Click to select Process Explorer in HKEY_CURRENT_USER > Software > Sysinternals > 
Process Explorer. Scroll down to locate the key EulaAccepted. Currently, the value for the 
registry key EulaAccepted is 0x00000001(1).

c. Double-click EulaAccepted registry key. Currently the value data is set to 1. The value 
of 1 indicates that the EULA has been accepted by the user. 
 
 
d. Change the 1 to 0 for Value data. The value of 0 indicates that the EULA was not 
accepted. Click OK to continue. 
 
 
What is value for this registry key in the Data column? 
0x00000000(0) 
 
e. Open the Process Explorer. Navigate to the folder where you have downloaded 
SysInternals. Open the folder SysInternalsSuite > Open procexp.exe. 
 
When you open the Process Explorer, what did you see? 
The Process Explorer License Agreement dialog box
