Objective: 3A. To demonstrate Extract an Executable from a PCAP. 
Procedure: 
Pre-requisites: For this practical you need the lab.support.files folder, which you can 
download from here:   
https://mega.nz/file/bYJTBaJK#XOK8Ant7fqTpuiM2EZoqYyW23EDV9kt5MyWb8Hr6MD4
Once downloaded extract the folder. 
        Step 1: Change directory to the lab.support.files/pcaps folder, and get a listing of files 
using the ls command 
cd lab.support.files/pcaps 
ls 
 
Step 2: Issue the command below to open the nimda.download.pcap file in 
Wireshark. 
wireshark nimda.download.pcap 
Step 3: The nimda.download.pcap file contains the packet capture related to the 
malware download performed in a previous lab. The pcap contains all the packets 
sent and received while tcpdump was running. Select the fourth packet in the capture 
and expand the Hypertext Transfer Protocol to display as shown below. 
 
Packets one through three are the TCP handshake. The fourth packet shows the request for 
the malware file. Confirming what was already known, the request was done over HTTP, 
sent as a GET request


Step 4: Because HTTP runs over TCP, it is possible to use Wireshark’s Follow TCP 
Stream feature to rebuild the TCP transaction. Select the first TCP packet in the 
capture, a SYN packet. Right-click it and choose Follow > TCP Stream. 
 
Wireshark displays another window containing the details for the entire selected TCP flow. 


Step 5: Click Close in the Follow TCP Stream window to return to the Wireshark  
nimda.download.pcap file. 
 
Part 2: Extract Downloaded Files from PCAP 
Because capture files contain all packets related to traffic, a PCAP of a download can be 
used to retrieve a previously downloaded file.  
Follow the steps below to use Wireshark to retrieve the Nimda -malware. 
 
Step 1: In that fourth packet in the nimda.download.pcap file, notice that the HTTP 
GET request was generated from 209.165.200.235 to 209.165.202.133. The Info 
column also shows this is in fact the GET request for the file. 
 
Step 2: With the GET request packet selected, navigate to File > Export Objects > 
HTTP,  


from Wireshark’s menu 
 
Step 3: Wireshark will display all HTTP objects present in the TCP flow that contains 
the GET request. In this case, only the Nimda.Amm.exe file is present in the capture. It 
will take a few seconds before the file is displayed. 
 
Step 4: In the HTTP object list window, select the Nimda.Amm.exe file and click Save 
As at 
 the bottom of the screen. 
Step 5: Click the left arrow until you see the Home Click Home and then click the 
analyst 
 folder (if analyst folder doesn’t exist create a folder and name it “analyst”). Save the 
file there. 
Step 6: Return to your terminal window and ensure the file was saved. Change 
directory to the 
 /home/analyst folder and list the files in the folder using the ls command 
cd home/analyst 
ls 
   
 
Step 7: The file command gives information on the file type. Use the file command to 
learn a 
little more about the malware, as show below: 
file W32.Nimda.Amm.exe 

3B. To Demonstrate a practical for exploring DNS Traffic 
Part 1: Capture DNS Traffic 
Step 1: Download and install Wireshark. a. Download the latest stable version of Wireshark 
from www.wireshark.org. Choose the software version you need based on your PC’s 
architecture and operating system. 
1) In Windows, enter ipconfig /flushdns in Command Prompt 
 
2) At a command prompt or terminal, type nslookup enter the interactive mode. Enter 
the domain name of a website. The domain name www.cisco.com is used in this 
example. 
 
3) Type exit when finished. Close the command prompt. 
Part 2: Explore DNS Query Traffic 
a. Observe the traffic captured in the Wireshark Packet List pane. Enter udp.port ==53 
in the filter box and click the arrow (or press enter) to display only DNS packets. 
 
b. Select the DNS packet contains Standard query and A www.cisco.com in the Info 
column 

. In the Packet Details pane, notice this packet has Ethernet II, Internet Protocol 
Version 4, User Datagram Protocol and Domain Name System (query). 
 
 
d. Expand Ethernet II to view the details. Observe the source and destination fields. 
 
e.  Expand the User Datagram Protocol. Observe the source and destination ports. 
 
 
       f. Determine the IP and MAC address of the PC. 
1. In a Windows command prompt, enter arp –a and ipconfig /all to record the 
MAC and IP addresses of the PC. 
 
For Linux and macOS PC, enter ifconfig or ip address in a terminal. 
 
 
 
f. Expand Domain Name System (query) in the Packet Details pane. Then expand 
the Flags and Queries.  
 
 
Part 3: Explore DNS Response Traffic 
a. Select the corresponding response DNS packet has Standard query 
response and A www.cisco.com in the Info column.


b.Expand Domain Name System (response). Then expand the Flags, Queries, 
and Answers, observe the results. 
 
 
c. Observe the CNAME and A records in the Answers details.
