To perform a practical to Attack on a mySQL Database by using PCAP file 
Procedure: 
Step 1:  Open Terminal and open the lab.support.files and locate the SQL_Lab.pcap 
file: 
cd lab.support.files     
ls 
 
Step 2:  Open SQL_Lab.pcap in Wireshark to examine the captured network traffic. 
wireshark SQL_Lab.pcap & 
a.  The PCAP file opens within Wireshark and displays the captured network traffic. 
This capture file extends over an 8-minute (441 second) period, the duration of 
this SQL injection attack 
 
 
Step 3:  Within the Wireshark capture, right-click line 13 and select Follow > HTTP Stream. 
Line 13 was chosen because it is a GET HTTP request. This will be very helpful in 
following the data stream as the application layers sees it and leads up to the query 
testing for the SQL injection 

Step 4:  The source traffic is shown in red. The source has sent a GET request to host 
10.0.2.15. In blue, the destination device is responding back to the source. 
 
Step 5:   In the Find field, enter 1=1. Click Find Next. 
 
 
 
 
Explanation: The attacker has entered a query (1=1) into a UserID search box on the 
target 10.0.2.15 to see if the application is vulnerable to SQL injection. Instead of the 
application responding with a login failure message, it responded with a record from a 
database. The attacker has verified they can input an SQL command and the database 
will respond. The search string 1=1 creates an SQL statement that will be always true. In 
the example, it does not matter what is entered into the field, it will always be true. 
 
Step 6:  Close the HTTP stream window. In the next step, you will be viewing the 
continuation of an attack.

Step 7:  Within the Wireshark capture, right-click line 19, and click Follow > HTTP Stream. 
In the Find field, enter 1=1. Click Find Next. 
 
 
 
 
Step 8:  The attacker has entered a query (1’ or 1=1 union select database(), user()#) into a UserID 
search box on the target 10.0.2.15. Instead of the application responding with a login failure 
message, it responded with the following information: 
 
The database name is dvwa and the database user is root@localhost. There are also multiple 
user accounts being displayed. 

Step 9:  Close the Follow HTTP Stream window and Click Clear display filter to display 
the entire Wireshark conversation 
 
Step 10: Within the Wireshark capture, right-click line 22 and select Follow > HTTP 
Stream. In red, the source traffic is shown and is sending the GET request to host 
10.0.2.15. In blue, the destination device is responding back to the source. 
 
 
 
Step 11: In the Find field, enter 1=1. Click Find Next. 
Explanation: The attacker has entered a query (1’ or 1=1 union select null, version ()#) into 
a UserID search box on the target 10.0.2.15 to locate the version identifier. Notice how the 
version identifier is at the end of the output right before the </pre>.</div> closing HTML 
code. 
Step 12: Close the Follow HTTP Stream window and click Clear display filter to 
display the entire Wireshark conversation 
The attacker knows that there is a large number of SQL tables that are full of information. 
The attacker attempts to find them. 


Step 13: Within the Wireshark capture, right-click on line 25 and select Follow > 
HTTP Stream. The source is shown in red. It has sent a GET request to host 10.0.2.15. 
In blue, the destination device is responding back to the source. 
 
Step 14: In the Find field, enter users. Click Find Next. 
 
The attacker has entered a query (1’or 1=1 union select null, table_name from 
information_schema.tables#) into a UserID search box on the target 10.0.2.15 to view all the 
tables in the database. This provides a huge output of many tables, as the attacker specified 
“null” without any further specifications.

What would the modified command of (1′ OR 1=1 UNION SELECT null, column_name 
FROM INFORMATION_SCHEMA.columnsWHERE table_name=’users’) do for the 
attacker? 
→ The database would respond with a much shorter output filtered by the occurrence of 
the word “users”. 
The attack ends with the best prize of all; password hashes.  
Step 15: Within the Wireshark capture, right-click line 28 and select Follow > HTTP 
Stream. The source is shown in red. It has sent a GET request to host 10.0.2.15. In blue, the 
destination device is responding back to the source. 
Click Find and type in 1=1. Search for this entry.  
 
As seen above the password hashes for certain users are visible, using a website such 
as https://crackstation.net/, copy the password hash into the password hash cracker to reveal 
the plain-text password. 
Hashed Password: 8d3533d75ae2c3966d7e0d4fcc69216b 
Cracked Password from the Hash: 

